README.md, before:

# Instructions for setting up a Plinth development enviroment 

This repository aims to maintain up-to-date instructions for setting up a Plinth, formerly knows as PlutusTx, development environment. There are three possibilities how to setup the environment:  
* [Using Nix](https://github.com/iohkedu/plutus-dev-env/blob/main/instructions/using-nix.md) that provides a shell which contains all dependencies for building Plinth projects. 
* [Using a docker image](https://github.com/iohkedu/plutus-dev-env/blob/main/instructions/using-docker.md), that can be used standalone or integrated with VSCode. 
* [Using Demeter.run](https://github.com/iohkedu/plutus-dev-env/blob/main/instructions/using-demeter-run.md) online platform that provides up-to-date development environments for Plinth and other Cardano smart contract languages. 

The [plinth-template](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/plinth-template/tree/main) repository references an up-to-date Nix shell and a Docker image that both provide a Plinth development environment for the latest Plutus version. 

You can use the instructions provided here to install and configure Nix, VSCode with Docker or Demeter and then set it up with the *plinth-template* repository. 

| :information_source: | The *plinth-template* repository provides an auction demo project. A walkthrough of the code can be found at the official [Plutus user guide](https://plutus.cardano.intersectmbo.org/docs/category/example-an-auction-smart-contract). |  
|----------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|   

| :information_source: | The *plinth-dev-env* repository contains a demo Plinth project and a Docker image that both work with PlutusV2. They are provided in case a devloper wants to test and develop legacy PlutusV2 code. |  
|----------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|  

## Compiling a project 

The [cabal tool](https://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is used for building and packaging Haskell programs. Before compiling any project you should update the *cabal package index* with the following command, that tells cabal what packages and versions are available for installation: 
```console
cabal update
```

Once you have set up your developement environment and updated the *cabal package index*, you can build and run an example project with the following command from the location where the `<project_name>.cabal` file is located: 
```console
cabal run <executable_name>
```

You can find the executable names in the *executable* sections of the `<project_name>.cabal` file. In case there is only one executable name listed you can skip the name and run only `cabal run`. 

The command first builds the project and then runs the executable file defined in the *executable* section. 

| :information_source: | In case the project uses Plutus blueprints running the project will generate a `blueprint.json` file that contains the compiled code of the validators defined in the project. |  
|----------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|  

The following commands perform building and runing a project in two steps:
```console
cabal build <executable_name>
cabal exec <executable_name>
```

To start a REPL for a project use: 
```console
cabal repl
```

Commit message:

Shifting text from README.md in instructions folder to main README.md

README.md, after:

# Instructions for setting up a Plinth development enviroment 

This repository aims to maintain up-to-date instructions for setting up a Plinth, formerly knows as PlutusTx, development environment. There are three possibilities how to setup the environment:  
* [Using Nix](https://github.com/iohkedu/plutus-dev-env/blob/main/instructions/using-nix.md) that provides a shell which contains all dependencies for building Plinth projects. 
* [Using a docker image](https://github.com/iohkedu/plutus-dev-env/blob/main/instructions/using-docker.md), that can be used standalone or integrated with VSCode. 
* [Using Demeter.run](https://github.com/iohkedu/plutus-dev-env/blob/main/instructions/using-demeter-run.md) online platform that provides up-to-date development environments for Plinth and other Cardano smart contract languages. 

The [plinth-template](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/plinth-template/tree/main) repository references an up-to-date Nix shell and a Docker image that both provide a Plinth development environment for the latest Plutus version. 

You can use the instructions provided here to install and configure Nix, VSCode with Docker or Demeter and then set it up with the *plinth-template* repository. 

| :information_source: | Instructions provided in this repository might not be fully up to date at all times. For latest Nix and Docker instructions please check the instructions at the [plinth-template](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/plinth-template/tree/main) repository. | 
|----------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| 

| :information_source: | The *plinth-template* repository provides an auction demo project. A walkthrough of the code can be found at the official [Plutus user guide](https://plutus.cardano.intersectmbo.org/docs/category/example-an-auction-smart-contract). |  
|----------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|   

| :information_source: | The *plinth-dev-env* repository contains a demo Plinth project and a Docker image that both work with PlutusV2. They are provided in case a devloper wants to test and develop legacy PlutusV2 code. |  
|----------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|  

## Compiling a project 

The [cabal tool](https://cabal.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is used for building and packaging Haskell programs. Before compiling any project you should update the *cabal package index* with the following command, that tells cabal what packages and versions are available for installation: 
```console
cabal update
```

Once you have set up your developement environment and updated the *cabal package index*, you can build and run an example project with the following command from the location where the `<project_name>.cabal` file is located: 
```console
cabal run <executable_name>
```

You can find the executable names in the *executable* sections of the `<project_name>.cabal` file. In case there is only one executable name listed you can skip the name and run only `cabal run`. 

The command first builds the project and then runs the executable file defined in the *executable* section. 

| :information_source: | In case the project uses Plutus blueprints running the project will generate a `blueprint.json` file that contains the compiled code of the validators defined in the project. |  
|----------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|  

The following commands perform building and runing a project in two steps:
```console
cabal build <executable_name>
cabal exec <executable_name>
```

To start a REPL for a project use: 
```console
cabal repl
```
